`ButtonSet` - Update  docs (HDS-5238) (#3075)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/button-set/partials/code/how-to-use.md

## How to use this component

!!! Info

For guidance on button organization, grouping of button types, and related information please refer to the [button organization](/patterns/button-organization) pattern documentation.

!!!

> The basic invocation `ButtonSet` should include two or more buttons to be provided as children. (If used with only one button there will be no noticeable visual difference.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basic invocation of `ButtonSet` should include two or more buttons to be provided as children. (If used with only one button there will be no noticeable visual difference.)
```

## How to use this component

> The basic invocation should include two or more buttons to be provided as children:

Author: I made this change because I thought it was more accurate, not softer.

> The basic invocation should include two or more buttons to be provided as children:

Author: @MelSumner Please suggest other language if you don't agree with this update.

> The basic invocation should include two or more buttons to be provided as children:

Author: I updated this part further to mention that using a single button within a `ButtonSet` doesn't change the visual appearance.

</Hds::ButtonSet>
```

> Other button-like components can also be used as children such as the `Dropdown`.

Author: I could add other examples if others have ideas.

Author: Could be useful to add a bit of that and/or reference the Button pattern docs. I'll take a look...

```handlebars
<Hds::ButtonSet>
  <Hds::Dropdown as |D|>
    <D.ToggleButton @color="secondary" @text="Select an option" />
    <D.Title @text="Title Text" />
    <D.Description @text="Descriptive text goes here." />
    <D.Interactive @href="#">Add</D.Interactive>
    <D.Interactive @href="#">Add More</D.Interactive>
    <D.Interactive @href="#">Add Another Thing Too</D.Interactive>
    <D.Separator />
    <D.Interactive @route="components" @icon="trash" @color="critical">Delete</D.Interactive>
  </Hds::Dropdown>

  <Hds::Button @text="Submit" type="submit" />
</Hds::ButtonSet>
```

### Equal width buttons

If you want buttons with equal widths, set `@isFullWidth` to `true` on the `Button` components. To constrain the overall max-width, you can also add a width to the `ButtonSet` container (via an inline style or CSS class).

> Note: The ButtonSet is full-width (100%) by default.

Author: Thanks, I think the additional explanation is helpful. Will add.

```handlebars
<Hds::ButtonSet {{style maxWidth="15rem"}}>
  <Hds::Button @text="Save" @isFullWidth={{true}} />
  <Hds::Button @text="Cancel" @color="secondary" @href="https://hashicorp.com" @isFullWidth={{true}} />
</Hds::ButtonSet>
```

> Issue: The `Dropdown` does not have an `isFullWidth` option for the outer wrapper. Setting isFullWidth to “true” on the nested ToggleButton does not have the same effect.

Author: I included this example temporarily to show an issue with the Dropdown:
<img width="859" height="209" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c6e5dce8-f1fd-4eed-a6a1-0c0188761c0f" />

We may want to add an `isFullWidth` option to the Dropdown itself.

Author: I'm not seeing examples within consumer code bases but it's still a legitimate use case.

https://github.com/search?q=org%3Ahashicorp+ButtonSet%3E&type=code

Reviewer: @heatherlarsen here's what we were seeing: 

![CleanShot 2025-08-01 at 09 19 21@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/04c4f79a-d2f6-4226-9f55-93c244325932)

![CleanShot 2025-08-01 at 09 22 50@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1c8303f8-e85f-4626-b4f3-e3b6395a0034)

What we'd like to be able to ensure: 
![CleanShot 2025-08-01 at 09 24 09@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7a25807b-78d4-4efa-aba9-760dcb114c70)

Author: Created a follow-on ticket: https://hashicorp.atlassian.net/browse/HDS-5281

> Issue: The `Dropdown` does not have an `isFullWidth` option for the outer wrapper. Setting isFullWidth to “true” on the nested ToggleButton does not have the same effect.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this should be a warning banner?

```suggestion
!!! Warning 

**Code alert**

The `Dropdown` does not have an `isFullWidth` option for the outer wrapper. Setting isFullWidth to “true” on the nested ToggleButton does not have the same effect.
!!!
```

Author: Yeah, I added this mainly to show the issue so we could discuss a possible solution such as adding `isFullWidth` to the `Dropdown`. That would have to be done separately though so I guess we actually may want to keep this and turn it into a warning. I'll hold off changing it for now until we can discuss more though.

Author: I went ahead and made this change locally, thanks.

> Issue: The `Dropdown` does not have an `isFullWidth` option for the outer wrapper. Setting isFullWidth to “true” on the nested ToggleButton does not have the same effect.

Reviewer 3: [thought] I am not entirely convinced we should frame this as an "issue". It's not a problem per se, it's just how `flexbox` works (`ButtonSet` is a flex container). Technically, if one wants to have all the children of a `flex` with equal size, they should apply a `flex: 1 1 0` to each one of them. Applying `isFullWidth` to all the children of `ButtonSet` is just a workaround. Which makes me wonder if we should really add that property to the `Dropdown` container (there are already different factors playing into the width of the toggle and the list: https://hds-showcase.vercel.app/components/dropdown#width and this extra top-level width could interact with them in unexpected ways)

In @MelSumner case, the "solution" I don't think is to set `isFullWidth` on the button/dropdown, but have a way for the cards to wrap when there is not enough space (eg, by applying a min-width or width to the cards, and letting the flex items to wrap).

What we _could_ do, ideally, is to have an optional child yielded (`ButtonSet::Item` / `BS.Item`) like we do for the `Layout::Flex` and `Layout::Grid` exactly for this reason.

Happy to chat more in depth, if needed.

Author: I updated this section to make it into a warning as @heatherlarsen & @jorytindall recommended.

Should I open a ticket to investigate making updates either to the `ButtonSet` and/or `Dropdown` as a follow-on? @didoo

Reviewer 3: > Should I open a ticket to investigate making updates either to the `ButtonSet` and/or `Dropdown` as a follow-on? @didoo

For me, yes.

```handlebars
<Hds::ButtonSet>
  <Hds::Dropdown as |D|>
    <D.ToggleButton @color="secondary" @text="Select an option" />
    <D.Title @text="Title Text" />
    <D.Description @text="Descriptive text goes here." />
    <D.Interactive @href="#">Add</D.Interactive>
    <D.Interactive @href="#">Add More</D.Interactive>
    <D.Interactive @href="#">Add Another Thing Too</D.Interactive>
    <D.Separator />
    <D.Interactive @route="components" @icon="trash" @color="critical">Delete</D.Interactive>
  </Hds::Dropdown>

  <Hds::Button @text="Submit" type="submit" />
</Hds::ButtonSet>
```

### Equal width buttons

If you want buttons with equal widths, set `@isFullWidth` to `true` on the `Button` components. Since the ButtonSet is full-width (100%) by default, you will likely want to constrain its overall width by adding a `max-width` to the `ButtonSet` container (via an inline style or CSS class).

```handlebars
<Hds::ButtonSet {{style maxWidth="15rem"}}>
  <Hds::Button @text="Save" @isFullWidth={{true}} />
  <Hds::Button @text="Cancel" @color="secondary" @href="https://hashicorp.com" @isFullWidth={{true}} />
</Hds::ButtonSet>
```

!!! Warning

> **Code alert**

Reviewer 3: [thought] Sorry if I insist, but I still think this doesn't work/make sense as is now. 

[wearing the hat of a consumer] As a consumer of this documentation I see:
- an "Equal width buttons" title
- an explanation on how to achieve equal width buttons inside a ButtonSet
- a code snippet that demonstrates what it's explained above, that I can copy & use

but then I see:

- a warning "Code alert"  banner, that mentions a Dropdown (but I haven't seen the demo of the Dropdown yet)
- a code snippet that renders something that likely I don't want to see in production, and a code snippet that I should not be using (it's not the "correct" one to render equal width items)

there's no explanation of suggestions of how I would achieve that with the Dropdown, what is the "correct" way to implement, so all this part about the Dropdown not working as the button is not actionable for me, I am not sure what to make of it (it tells me what _not_ to do, but not what to do instead)

Author: I can remove that part. I originally added it as a temporary way to show the issue and discuss within this PR to see what others thought about it. It was something I uncovered when I was looking at the Card layout within the HDS demo app and attempting to help Melanie and Anna solve issues with it.

The `Dropdown` does not have an `isFullWidth` option for the outer wrapper. Setting isFullWidth to “true” on the nested ToggleButton does not have the same effect.

> !!!

Author: I have since deleted this warning banner.
